# BUD-05

## Media optimization endpoints

`draft` `optional`

Defines the `PUT /media` endpoint for processing and optimizing media

## PUT /media

The `PUT /media` endpoint MUST accept binary data in the request body.  
The server SHOULD perform any optimizations or conversions it deems necessary in order to make the media more suitable for distribution.

Clients SHOULD include `Content-Type` and `Content-Length` headers specifying the MIME type and size of the data. Clients MAY provide an `X-SHA-256` header containing the lowercase hex-encoded sha256 of the request body. A server MAY use this value to enforce rejection policies or perform authorization checks prior to persisting the blob.

On success, the endpoint MUST respond with a `2xx` status code with a [Blob Descriptor](#blob-descriptor) in the response body.  
On failure, the endpoint MUST return an appropriate `4xx` status code and an error message explaining the reason for the rejection.

### Upload Authorization

Servers MAY require authorization when processing media as defined by [BUD-11](./11.md#endpoint-authorization-requirements).

## HEAD /media

Servers MUST respond to `HEAD` requests on the `/media` endpoint in a similar way to the `HEAD /upload` endpoint defined in [BUD-06](./06.md)

## Limitations

The goal of this endpoint is to provide a simple "trusted" optimization endpoint clients can use to optimize media for distribution.
How the blob is optimized is the sole responsibility of the server and the client should have no say in what optimization process is used.

If a longer optimization or transformation process is needed, or if the client needs to specify how a blob should be transformed, other protocols should be used.

## Client Implementation

Clients MAY let a user selected a "trusted processing" server for uploading images or short videos.

Once a server has been selected, the client uploads the original media to the `/media` endpoint of the trusted server and get the optimized blob back.

Then the client can call the `/mirror` endpoint on other servers to distribute the blob.
